README.md, before:

[![Gitter chat](https://badges.gitter.im/gitterHQ/gitter.png)](https://gitter.im/big-data-europe/Lobby)

# docker-hive

This is a docker container for Apache Hive 2.3.2. It is based on https://github.com/big-data-europe/docker-hadoop so check there for Hadoop configurations.
This deploys Hive and starts a hiveserver2 on port 10000.
Metastore is running with a connection to postgresql database.
The hive configuration is performed with HIVE_SITE_CONF_ variables (see hadoop-hive.env for an example).

To run Hive with postgresql metastore:
```
    docker-compose up -d
```

To deploy in Docker Swarm:
```
    docker stack deploy -c docker-compose.yml hive
```

To run a PrestoDB 0.181 with Hive connector:

```
  docker-compose up -d presto-coordinator
```

This deploys a Presto server listens on port `8080`

## Testing
Load data into Hive:
```
  $ docker-compose exec hive-server bash
  # /opt/hive/bin/beeline -u jdbc:hive2://localhost:10000
  > CREATE TABLE pokes (foo INT, bar STRING);
  > LOAD DATA LOCAL INPATH '/opt/hive/examples/files/kv1.txt' OVERWRITE INTO TABLE pokes;
```

Then query it from PrestoDB. You can get [presto.jar](https://prestosql.io/docs/current/installation/cli.html) from PrestoDB website:
```
  $ wget https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/io/prestosql/presto-cli/308/presto-cli-308-executable.jar
  $ mv presto-cli-308-executable.jar presto.jar
  $ chmod +x presto.jar
  $ ./presto.jar --server localhost:8080 --catalog hive --schema default
  presto> select * from pokes;
```

## Contributors
* Ivan Ermilov [@earthquakesan](https://github.com/earthquakesan) (maintainer)
* Yiannis Mouchakis [@gmouchakis](https://github.com/gmouchakis)
* Ke Zhu [@shawnzhu](https://github.com/shawnzhu)

Commit message:

Hive 3.1.2 on top of Hadoop 3.1.2

README.md, after:

[![Gitter chat](https://badges.gitter.im/gitterHQ/gitter.png)](https://gitter.im/big-data-europe/Lobby)

# docker-hive

This is a docker container for Apache Hive 2.3.2. It is based on https://github.com/big-data-europe/docker-hadoop so check there for Hadoop configurations.
This deploys Hive and starts a hiveserver2 on port 10000.
Metastore is running with a connection to postgresql database.
The hive configuration is performed with HIVE_SITE_CONF_ variables (see hadoop-hive.env for an example).

To run Hive with postgresql metastore:
```
    docker-compose up -d -p hive
```

Need to specify network name to avoid _ in domain names.

To deploy in Docker Swarm:
```
    docker stack deploy -c docker-compose.yml hive
```

To run a PrestoDB 0.181 with Hive connector:

```
  docker-compose up -d presto-coordinator
```

This deploys a Presto server listens on port `8080`

## Testing
Load data into Hive:
```
  $ docker-compose exec hive-server bash
  # /opt/hive/bin/beeline -u jdbc:hive2://localhost:10000
  > CREATE TABLE pokes (foo INT, bar STRING);
  > LOAD DATA LOCAL INPATH '/opt/hive/examples/files/kv1.txt' OVERWRITE INTO TABLE pokes;
```

Then query it from PrestoDB. You can get [presto.jar](https://prestosql.io/docs/current/installation/cli.html) from PrestoDB website:
```
  $ wget https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/io/prestosql/presto-cli/308/presto-cli-308-executable.jar
  $ mv presto-cli-308-executable.jar presto.jar
  $ chmod +x presto.jar
  $ ./presto.jar --server localhost:8080 --catalog hive --schema default
  presto> select * from pokes;
```

## Contributors
* Ivan Ermilov [@earthquakesan](https://github.com/earthquakesan) (maintainer)
* Yiannis Mouchakis [@gmouchakis](https://github.com/gmouchakis)
* Ke Zhu [@shawnzhu](https://github.com/shawnzhu)
